add getting started for reactJS (#504)
kuzzleio/sdk-javascript: doc/7/getting-started/react/standalone/index.md

---
type: page
code: false
title: Standalone
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and ReactJS
order: 0
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and ReactJS

This section deals with **Kuzzle V2** (+ **Javascript SDK 7**) and **ReactJS**. We will create **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to
[document notifications](/sdk/js/7/essentials/realtime-notifications#document-messages) to develop a realtime chat.

## Requirements

> - **Node.js** >= 8.0.0 ([install here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))

Reviewer: Kuzzle v2 support only Node.js 12 >
```suggestion
- **Node.js** >= 12.0.0 ([install here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))
```

---
type: page
code: false
title: Standalone
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and ReactJS
order: 0
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and ReactJS

> This section deals with **Kuzzle V2** (+ **Javascript SDK 7**) and **ReactJS**. We will create **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will help you get started with  **Kuzzle V2** (+ **Javascript SDK 7**) and **ReactJS**. We will create **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to
```

[document notifications](/sdk/js/7/essentials/realtime-notifications#document-messages) to develop a realtime chat.

## Requirements

- **Node.js** >= 12.0.0 ([install here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))
- **Create React App** ([install here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app))
- **Running Kuzzle V2 Stack** ([instructions here](/core/2/guides/getting-started/running-kuzzle))

## Prepare your environment

Create your React app and install all the dependencies from the command line using npm:
```bash
npx create-react-app kuzzle-playground
```
Install Kuzzle's Javascript SDK: 
```bash
cd kuzzle-playground
npm install kuzzle-sdk@7
```

> We'll rewrite the src/App.js so you can remove everything inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll rewrite the *src/App.js* so you can remove everything inside.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'll rewrite the `src/App.js` so you can remove everything inside.
```

## Instantiating Kuzzle SDK

We have to connect the server so that our client can interact with it.

> To do this, we have to create a *src/services/kuzzle.js* file to put our kuzzle instance declaration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve this, create a *src/services/kuzzle.js* file to put our kuzzle instance declaration:
```

<<< ./snippets/kuzzle.js.snippet[js]

> You can now edit the *src/App.js* file to connect to Kuzzle. To do this, import the kuzzle service file and the following imports in the same time:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now edit the *src/App.js* file to connect to Kuzzle. To do this, add the following imports at the top of the file:
```

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:1[js]

> Now, add the app class and add in the constructor a `message` property in the state (we'll use it to store the user input message) a `username` property, `messages` property (we’ll use it to store all messages) and a `validate` property (Value that will change the display):

Reviewer: IMHO instructions are unclear here because the boilerplate is shipped with a function called `App` inside this file

> Now, add the app class and add in the constructor a `message` property in the state (we'll use it to store the user input message) a `username` property, `messages` property (we’ll use it to store all messages) and a `validate` property (Value that will change the display):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, define the `App` class. The constructor must add a `message` property in the state (we'll use it to store the user input message) a `username` property, `messages` property (we’ll use it to store all messages) and a `validate` property (Value that will change the display):
```

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:2[js]

> Then we will establish the connection to kuzzle and create the index and collection of our chat if they don't exist. Add the following `valid()` method in the App Component:

Reviewer: Explain the purpose of this method (when it's called, what it does)

> Then we will establish the connection to kuzzle and create the index and collection of our chat if they don't exist. Add the following `valid()` method in the App Component:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we will establish the connection to kuzzle and create the index and collection of our chat if they don't exist. Once the connection is established, we need to ensure our Kuzzle instance is properly initialized before we allow the user to interact with it. We implement this logic in the following `valid()` method.
```

Reviewer 2: BTW what is `valid`? A React Component lifecycle hook?

Author: the `valid` function allows me to change the state of `validate` depending on the recovery or not of the username it is also in this function that I will connect to kuzzle. No it's not A react component lifecycle hook.

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:3[js]

## Get the username

> First of all, we need to know the user's name. Let's start by adding the following function.

Reviewer: Explain the purpose of this function

Reviewer 2: BTW this is pure React code, not even sure we should go through it.

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:4[js]

As you can see we'll need the `handleInputChange()` function to save the `username` variable

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:5[js]

## Display the messages

Then, create the following functions to fetch and display the messages:

> 

Reviewer: Describe the purpose of the `getMessage` method

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:6[js]

> The function `fetchMessage()` will [search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/search) for the first hundred newest messages and store them in our array, before subscribing to changes in the messages collection. We called it in the `valid()` function we created above.

Reviewer: This method does not subscribes
```suggestion
The function `fetchMessage()` will [search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/search) for the first hundred newest messages and store them in our array. We called it in the `valid()` function we created above.
```

> The function `fetchMessage()` will [search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/search) for the first hundred newest messages and store them in our array, before subscribing to changes in the messages collection. We called it in the `valid()` function we created above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `fetchMessage()` function will [search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/search) for the first hundred newest messages and store them in our array. We called it in the `valid()` function we created above.
```

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:7[js]

Now, add the following function outside the App component to display the messages:

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:8[js]

## Send messages

We need to write a simple method that will [create](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/create) a new message document in Kuzzle.

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:9[js]

> We will receive notifications from Kuzzle each time we modify our message collection (even if it is a message creation on our part) that we will use to add the messages in our array.

Reviewer: Proposal:
```suggestion
We will receive real-time notification from Kuzzle each time a messages is added to our message collection. 
We will use those notifications to append the messages to our application state.
```

Reviewer 2: `a message`

> Now, we need to subscribe to the collection that contains our messages. So let's create our `subscribeMessages()` action. It will call Kuzzle's realtime controller to allow us to [receive notifications](/sdk/js/7/controllers/realtime/subscribe) on message creations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we need to subscribe to the collection that contains our messages. So let's create our `subscribeMessages()` method. 
It will call Kuzzle's realtime controller to allow us to [receive notifications](/sdk/js/7/controllers/realtime/subscribe) on message creations:
```

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:10[js]

> Add an input field bound to the message property, and a button which calls our `sendMessage()` function: 

Reviewer: IMHO it's unclear. Explain the purpose of the method that you are gonna adds to the component (what is rendered, what action is called on click, etc)

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:11[js]

Add the following CSS classes:

<<< ./snippets/App.css.snippet[js]

> To finish, add render of our App component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, add the `render()` method of our App component:
```

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:12[js]

The entire file should look like this:

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet[js]

To launch this app, just type the following command:

```bash
npm start
```

> You can now add new messages to Kuzzle and receive the notification of the creation to update your state and display the new messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now send new messages to Kuzzle and receive notifications of messages creation to update your state and display the new messages.
```

---
type: page
code: false
title: Standalone
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and ReactJS
order: 0
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and ReactJS

> This tutorial will help you get started deals with **Kuzzle V2** (+ **Javascript SDK 7**) and **ReactJS**. We will create **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to

Reviewer 3: Remove '**deals**' from the first phrase?

The `fetchMessage()` function will [search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/search) for the first hundred newest messages and store them in our array. We called it in the `valid()` function we created above.

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:7[js]

Now, add the following function outside the App component to display the messages:

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:8[js]

## Send messages

We need to write a simple method that will [create](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document/create) a new message document in Kuzzle.

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:9[js]

We will receive real-time notification from Kuzzle each time a message is added to our message collection.
We will use those notifications to append the messages to our application state.

Now, we need to subscribe to the collection that contains our messages. So let's create our `subscribeMessages()` method. It will call Kuzzle's realtime controller to allow us to [receive notifications](/sdk/js/7/controllers/realtime/subscribe) on message creations:

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:10[js]

Add an input field bound to the message property, and a button which calls our `sendMessage()` function: 

<<< ./snippets/App.js.snippet:11[js]

> Add the following CSS classes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Add the following CSS classes in the App.css file:
```
